So it would be nice if we could add posts, right
and to be able to do so
we first of all need to add one more input field to our well post-create.component,
right now we only got the text area,
I will actually add one additional one, mat form field here and in there, I'll add a normal input for
the title.
Now important, to turn this into a material input field, we have to add mat input and this now,
well as I said should give me the title I want to add.
So here I will for now also use two-way binding, I'll rename this to entered content and I will have
the entered title
too, we can also get rid of new post, also down there,
maybe swap positions there to have the title first, go back to the template and use entered content
here
and on the first input, use ngModel and two-way binding to bind this to the entered title.
So now this is all up to date,
now we can create a new post in on add post, store it in a constant because we're not changing it,
new javascript object where we have a title property and where we store the entered title and where
we have the content property to store the entered content.
We can also structure this over multiple lines to make it a bit easier
to read I guess.
Now the thing is this post is here,
that's cool,
how do we get it into the other component?
We can use this property and event binding thing you learned about with the click listener and so on, we
can use that on our own components too.
We can emit our own events and we can also send data into a component and we want to emit an event
here in post create, we want to emit
an hey I got a new post event and we want to listen to that event in the app component which is where
we were using the post create.
We then want to get a created post, add it to a posts array which we probably managed in the app component
then later and pass that posts array down to app post list,
so step by step. Let's first of all go to the posts create component and emit our own event. To emit our
own event,
we need a feature provided by angular/core, the event emitter.
Then we add a new property and that property here can have any name you want,
so I'll name it
post created, it makes sense to kind of use your event name as a property name here and that will be
a new event emitter created with the new keyword and now with that, we can go to on add post and call
this post created and then emit to emit a new event.
Now here, we want to pass our post as an argument, that's important,
so this passes the post as an argument.
Cool,
so how can we listen to that?
Well we first of all have to make angular aware that post created is an event to which you can listen
from the outside, whilst it makes sense to be able to do that because you rarely want to listen to events
you emit in the same component, you still have to do this explicitly and you do this by adding a decorator
to this property.
This decorator is called output,
so just like you added @component to the class here, you now add @output
and don't forget the parentheses to post created. This turns this into an event to which you can listen
to from the outside and from the outside means in the parent component,
so in the component where you are using the selector. There we can now use event binding to listen to
posts created
and then again, execute any code we want whenever this event occurs
and of course what I want to do here is I want to get that post and store it in a list of posts.
So in the app component here, I'll override title here with a new posts property which is an empty
array initially
but then here, I'll add on post added as a method, as a function so to say
and we know that we will get a post as an argument here and I will therefore set this post or call
this post and call push here and push this new post on this list to store it there.
Now that's one part,
now we're adding this post here,
of course this is doesn't do that much,
we also need to be able to pass this post down.
Now first of all let's connect post created with on post added, so the method name you chose here and to
pass on the data you are getting,
you have to use a special variable name and that is $event.
This essentially gives you access to that data
you emited
and that's not just for custom events, that will be the same for click events or any built-in events
too.
There you also get a default dom event object, whatever you're passing or receiving
with an event, you get access with the special $event variable so that you can pass it on to your
own method or use it in an inline code statement
you might have here.
So now we're passing this on,
now we need to pass it down to app post list and there, we can dive in.
We get our posts,
all we have to do is make the posts property bindable from outside
via property binding.
By default it's not bindable but we can make it bindable by adding a decorator to it
and since we had @output for emitting an event, it probably makes sense to add here we use input and
is added with the @ sign and then the name of the decorator input
and don't forget the parentheses.
Now you can bind two posts from the outside and from the outside
again means from the parent component, only from there, only from the direct parent.
So here we add square brackets for property binding posts and we can set this equal to posts here.
Now to avoid confusion about the names, I'll actually rename this here,
I'll name this stored posts,
so the stored post is the new name and I will pass this on here. And now the chain is
as following,
we're listening to the post created event,
we're adding the post in on post
added to our stored posts list and we're passing down that list, that array to app post list and angular's
change detection will automatically detect whenever a new post is created when that changes and when
it needs to render this new post.
So with this, we should have a complete chain in place that actually allows us to enter a title here
and some content here,
click save post and see that being added here
and of course we can add another title and even more content and continue creating new posts.
So that's pretty amazing,
this is how we can create our post here and how we can add them with the help of property and event binding
on our own components.